The **Norumbega Tower** is a stone tower erected by [Eben Norton
Horsford](Eben_Norton_Horsford "wikilink") in 1889 to mark the supposed
location of [Fort Norumbega](Fort_Norumbega "wikilink"), a legendary
[Norse](Norsemen "wikilink") fort and city.[^1][^2] It is located in
[Weston, Massachusetts](Weston,_Massachusetts "wikilink") at the
confluence of [Stony Brook](Stony_Brook_(Waltham) "wikilink") and the
[Charles River](Charles_River "wikilink"). The tower is approximately
`{{convert|38|ft|m}}`{=mediawiki} tall, composed of mortared field
stones with a spiral stone staircase. There is no evidence,
archaeological or otherwise, to support the assertion that there were
Norse settlements anywhere in New England.

Eben Norton Horsford was convinced that the [Eastern
Algonquian](Eastern_Algonquian "wikilink") word \'Norumbega\', which has
been taken to mean the general region that is now coastal [New
England](New_England "wikilink"), was derived from \'Norvega\', meaning
[Norway](Norway "wikilink"). A prominent stone plaque on the tower
relates to [Norse
explorers](Norse_colonization_of_North_America "wikilink") from the
[Icelandic sagas](Icelandic_sagas "wikilink"). Horsford believed
Norumbega to be [Vinland](Vinland "wikilink"), which he had no physical
evidence to prove. The construction of the tower was accomplished four
years before Horsford\'s death.

Horsford\'s beliefs and tower influenced the naming of [Norumbega
Park](Norumbega_Park "wikilink"), a well-known recreational complex
located across the river in [Newton](Newton,_Massachusetts "wikilink")
that operated from 1897 to 1964. The addition of the tower also altered
the way Americans viewed Norse history and its impact on North America.
